          MODULE=wildmidi
         VERSION=0.2.2
          SOURCE=$MODULE-$VERSION.tar.gz
      SOURCE_URL=$SFORGE_URL/$MODULE
      SOURCE_VFY=sha1:fad33365f8aaba3afdca6bb68bc48056425176a3
        WEB_SITE=http://wildmidi.sourceforge.net/
         ENTERED=20090721
         UPDATED=20090721
           SHORT="a simple software midi player"

cat << EOF
WildMIDI is a simple software midi player which has a core softsynth
library that can be use with other applications.

WildMIDI was originally conceived in December 2001 as an experiment to
see if MIDI files could be played using the same samples as existing
software but with much less overhead. Coming into existence as a
command-line player in 2002 the first versions were so successful in
reducing the overhead that developers from Quakeforge suggested that
WildMIDI could be turned into a library. 2003 saw the first
implementations of the WildMIDI library, with Quakeforge being used as
the test application. The 1st official release of WildMIDI occured in
2004 with a couple of bug fixes following shortly after.

The WildMIDI library uses Gravis Ultrasound patch files to convert MIDI
files into audio which is then passed back to the calling application
for further processing or output. The API of the library is designed so
that it is easy to include WildMIDI into applications that wish to
include MIDI file playback. With multiple MIDI file support you can
develop applications to mix several midi files together at the same
time, and with the next release you will be able to use a different
patch set for each MIDI file.

Currently there is a small command-line player that accompanies the
library which gives just one example of the use of the WildMIDI
library. The next release will also contain a "self-contained" player
which will play midi files without the extra overhead that occurs with
the library. This is achieved by having a core source that is shared
between the library and "self-contained" player.

The future of the project will not end with the library, but with the
library the door is open to possibilities including a software MIDI
device, or a graphical MIDI sequencer.
EOF
